# vision2c-project

                         ABSTRACT
The means of assisting visually impaired and blind (VIB) people when travelling usually relies on other people. Assistive devices have been developed to assist in blind navigation, but many technologies require users to purchase more devices and they lack flexibility, thus making it inconvenient for VIB users.  Web technology has become the vital source of information, and this information must be accessible by everyone, whether an ordinary person or visually impaired person. To make information accessible to the visually impaired person, technology like speech recognition can help them access the websites easily. Elderly care emphasizes the social and personal requirements of Visually Disabled Persons who need some assistance with daily activities and Mobile Access. Vision 2c is the fulfillment of the special needs and requirements that are unique to senior citizens. The Main objective is to develop an Application for Visually Challenged persons, where the Audio Can be converted into Text and vice versa. The term “Voice recognition” is sometimes used to refer recognition systems that must be trained to a particular speaker. Speech recognition is the process of converting an audio waveform into text similar to the information being conveyed. Text -to speech (TTS) is a type of assistive technology that reads digital text aloud. TTS can take words on a computer or other digital device and convert them into audio. Our idea is based on the theme of “To Care for Visually Disabled Persons.

INTRODUCTION

Vision2C is an android application for partially blind people. It uses text to speech and speech to text technology. App also includes google voice-search engine. Speech recognition is an interdisciplinary subfield of computer science and computational linguistics that develops methodologies and technologies that enable the recognition and translation of spoken language into text by computers with the main benefit of searchability. It is also known as automatic speech recognition (ASR), computer speech recognition or speech to text (STT).It incorporates knowledge and research in the computer science, linguistics and computer engineering fields. The reverse process is speech synthesis. From the technology perspective, speech recognition has a long history with several waves of major innovations. Most recently, the field has benefited from advances in deep learning and Big Data.

PROBLEM STATEMENT

Vision2C is an android application for partially blind people. It uses text to speech and speech to text technology. App also includes google voice-search engine. Speech recognition is an interdisciplinary subfield of computer science and computational linguistics that develops methodologies and technologies that enable the recognition and translation of spoken language into text by computers with the main benefit of searchability. It is also known as automatic speech recognition (ASR), computer speech recognition or speech to text (STT).It incorporates knowledge and research in the computer science, linguistics and computer engineering fields. The reverse process is speech synthesis. From the technology perspective, speech recognition has a long history with several waves of major innovations. Most recently, the field has benefited from advances in deep learning and Big Data. Our mission is to provide our clients with the highest level of quality of life that is achievable. It uses text to speech and speech to text technology. App also includes google voice-search engine.

EXISTING SYSTEM

Automatic speech recognition or speech-to-text system identifies spoken words in speech and converts them to written text. ASR systems extract acoustic signal characteristics from speech and determine the words in it by pattern matching Acoustic and language models are used in developing ASR systems. It would be easy for them to surf the website as they can provide an audio input and can receive the desired result via voice output. This kind of approach can help visually impaired people interact with the website using voice input. Voice output will help read the website’s contents and allow the user to traverse from one link to another, thus solving the visually impaired problem of accessibility to technology. visually impaired or blind people as a scope of the project. Recently, there has been a lot of interest in blind assisting technology, like speech recognition for people with disabilities, all over the world. Because of the expected increase in the proportion of the population with a visual disability, particularly in low and middle-income countries like India, the need for and demand for such technologies will grow over time. Several systems have been developed to assist visually impaired people and improve their quality of life. Unfortunately, the majority of these systems have limited capabilities. Website assistance via speech recognition is one such technological approach that can benefit blind individuals to access the information available on the website and help them to navigate over the website.
              
PROPOSED SYSTEM

With Proposed System the user can know can make a call. And new features are added like making notes. The User can also monitor the battery percentage and can check it is charging or not. VISION2C is an 
Integrated app that act as a vocal Assistant to explore the elements on the Screen like Battery Level and its Status, Voiceover Dial pad, Notes Maker that converts Audio to Text and Vice versa, Message Manager which reads Textual elements aloud, Status of Mobile External Connectivity devices	Bluetooth and	Wi-Fi.

